- The codebase is a bit messy because there was a 4 year gap, and a change in direction

### What does this project use
- Vue 2
    - KeenUI component library
    - pug instead of html
    - sass (not scss but sass) instead of css
- window.storageObject as a wrapper around localStorage (e.g. persistent storage)
- backend/server is small
    - uses Deno, but you can import/use NodeJS stuff
    - mostly a static file server (videos, html/js/css)
    - extra APIs for 
        - listing paths to all video files
        - renaming a video file to have an id
    - Note: the "listing paths to all video files" has some complications
        - We don't compute the paths on-demand, but rather in a loop.
        - This means there won't be a computation spike if 50 clients ask for the list of video paths
        - The client asks for the list video paths continuously (I could setup web sockets to push "new video path" events but whatever)
        - There's a way to keep the list updated efficiently using Deno's built-in file watcher. I'm not doing that. I'd be good to do that in the future. Right now I'm effectively just looping and scanning the file system every X seconds. NOTE: its at least in a way that file-scans won't pile-up (e.g. doesn't use setInterval). It waits for the scan to finish before waiting for a set duration.


### Where's the (important) Data
- Other than the raw video files, all data is client side right now, either saved to Indexed DB (frontend database) or stored in `$root` from `Root.vue`
    - Sadly some data is treated as "being" both in the database and `$root`
        - E.g. there is NOT a strict data flow of "UI edit => update the database, database response => updates $root"
        - Its more like, UI changes $root, we detect changes in `$root`, update the database. Or: ask backend for info, update database, then update `$root`. Etc
        - It'd be great to clean this up, but $root data is reactive and watched and edited by all different parts of the UI
    - When downloading stuff
        - it comes from
               - either `$root.searchResults`
               - or (if no search filters) it pulls all observations/videos from frontendDb 
        - Data format is heavily converted: database tables ≠ downloaded tables
            - The database is, conceptually, a big JSON object, with videos and observations as top level keys
            - The download format, in contrast, is more SQL style; multiple tables, tables-of-relationships instead of nested values
            - NOTE: a hack on CSV datatypes
                 - Humans (non-developers) need CSV (I assume)
                 - PROBLEM: by default CSV is garbage for data types. We can't tell the difference between null and empty-string or "1" and 1. This is an issue for this codebase and upload actions.
                 - MY SOLUTION: I (with caveats) yaml-stringify each cell value on-write, and yaml-parse each cell value on-read
                     - After yaml.stringify-ing, the whole thing is CSV escaped (so quotes can end up double escaped)
                     - the values get converted as follows:
                         - null/undefined becomes the empty string (allowed by yaml.stringify but not always the default behavior)
                         - The empty string, when stringified, becomes to a string with two double quotes (just like JSON.stringify). Meaning, in Excel, the cell isn't empty, it's a cell with two quotes in it. Not the greatest UX, but it lets us tell the difference between null (empty cell) and an empty string (cell with two quotes).
                         - Its a similar kinda-crappy UX for some strings like "1" or " " (a space) or "true". e.g. yaml.stringify("1") == "\"1\"", and in Excel the user is going to see "1" (with the quotes being visible in the box)
                         - However, here is where the magic happens: in yaml most strings don't need quotes. yaml.stringify("hello") == "hello" != "\"hello\"". So, in Excel, the cell will simply contain hello.
                         - This is the best 
                         - NOTE: there are some extra more-strict caveats. Strings such as an ISO date string don't get quotes when given to yaml.stringify. I give them (and other patterns) quotes I have a whole reserved space of things that technically-don't-need quotes getting quotes so that in the future we can parse them as a literal value (ex: 2020-20-20 is parsed as date rather than as a string)
    - If you wanted to adapt this codebase to use a real/backend database:
        - you would simply edit `database.js` and make an alternative to `frontendDb` that has the same API, then swap all calls to `frontendDb` for your new alternative
        - every interaction to the database is through that API
        - Note: the labels and users are not really a database table (yet) previously everything, even the video data, was just generated by looking at the observations table.

    - The $root data (from `root.vue`) is a mess partly because the design changed
        - routeData$
        - searchResults & filterAndSort
            - search results (and filters) are too integrated
            - For example
                - And clicking to "See clips" for a specific label is implemented by adding the label name as a filter in the search
                - But the label filter also comes from the routeData$ (clicking "See Clips" adds it to the route data)
                - The video list on the right shows search-results videos
                - And the download button downloads observations returned by search results
        - selectedSegment
            - should (and used to) change the routeData$. But not high priority. This value is set by both the ObservationEditor and SegmentDisplay
        - email
            - used by ObservationEditor.vue, set by Root.vue, updated by Search.vue
        - labels
             - this data is not on parity with the labels database data because it (additionally) contains "selected" which is a frontend-only attribute
             - TODO: labels should have a proper database table (not always-generated data) and stuff like addLabel should be removed in favor of a labels-manager that listens for globalEvents.observationUpdated, globalEvents.observationRemoved, with a sanity/backup option of scanning all observations to re-compute stuff like number of videos with the  at least one observation with the label

### How do I do video-stuff on the frontend
- Video functionality probably the most messy because so much depends on the video player
- `video_storage_manager.js` is new/incomplete refactor of stuff. Ideally anything that needs video-stuff should have to talk to video_storage_manager.js. Like I said though, its incomplete.
- `video_tools.js` are a bunch of pure functions, and the source-of-truth when it comes to video formats/validation. Eventually it'd be nice for video_storage_manager.js to be the only frontend file importing video_tools.js
- `$root.videoInterface` is the current runtime-manager of video stuff. It trys to make sure stuff like isVideoLoaded, isVideoPlaying, etc behave correctly, update when the route changes, etc. It should be squashed and replaced by video_storage_manager.js
- `VideoPlayer.vue` is the only thing that can detect the duration of a video
    - lots of things (like SegmentDisplay) depend on the duration of the video, so they have to wait/check for when the duration is discovered
- the backend is the only one that knows the paths of the videos
        - Root.vue asks the backend in a loop for the list of video paths, then tells video_storage_manager.js
